Before configuring SSH, the switch must be minimally configured with a unique hostname and the correct network connectivity settings.

Step 1. Verify SSH support.

Use the show ip ssh command to verify that the switch supports SSH. If the switch is not running an IOS that supports cryptographic features, this command is unrecognized.

Step 2. Configure the IP domain.

Configure the IP domain name of the network using the ip domain-name domain-name global configuration mode command. In the example configuration below, the domain-name value is cisco.com.

Step 3. Generate RSA key pairs.

Not all versions of the IOS default to SSH version 2, and SSH version 1 has known security flaws. To configure SSH version 2, issue the ip ssh version 2 global configuration mode command. Generating an RSA key pair automatically enables SSH. Use the crypto key generate rsa global configuration mode command to enable the SSH server on the switch and generate an RSA key pair. When generating RSA keys, the administrator is prompted to enter a modulus length. The sample configuration in the figure uses a modulus size of 1,024 bits. A longer modulus length is more secure, but it takes more time to generate and to use.

Note: To delete the RSA key pair, use the crypto key zeroize rsa global configuration mode command. After the RSA key pair is deleted, the SSH server is automatically disabled.

Step 4. Configure user authentication.

The SSH server can authenticate users locally or use an authentication server. To use the local authentication method, create a username and password pair with the username username secret password global configuration mode command. In the example, the user admin is assigned the password ccna.

Step 5. Configure the vty lines.

Enable the SSH protocol on the vty lines using the transport input ssh line configuration mode command. The Catalyst 2960 has vty lines ranging from 0 to 15. This configuration prevents non-SSH (such as Telnet) connections and limits the switch to accept only SSH connections. Use the line vty global configuration mode command and then the login local line configuration mode command to require local authentication for SSH connections from the local username database.

Step 6. Enable SSH version 2.

By default, SSH supports both versions 1 and 2. When supporting both versions, this is shown in the show ip ssh output as supporting version 1.99. Version 1 has known vulnerabilities. For this reason, it is recommended to enable only version 2. Enable SSH version using the ip ssh version 2 global configuration command.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
When Using Putty to cerify ssh:
On a PC, an SSH client such as PuTTY, is used to connect to an SSH server. For the examples, the following have been configured:

SSH enabled on switch S1
Interface VLAN 99 (SVI) with IPv4 address 172.17.99.11 on switch S1
PC1 with IPv4 address 172.17.99.21
In the figure, the technician is initiating an SSH connection to the SVI VLAN IPv4 address of S1. The terminal software PuTTY

After clicking Open in PuTTY, the user is prompted for a username and password. Using the configuration from the previous example, the username admin and password ccna are entered. After entering the correct combination, the user is connected via SSH to the CLI on the Catalyst 2960 switch.


To display the version and configuration data for SSH on the device that you configured as an SSH server, use the show ip ssh command. In the example, SSH version 2 is enabled. To check the SSH connections to the device, use the show ssh command.

Login as: admin
Using keyboard-interactive authentication.
Password: <ccna>
 
S1> enable
Password: <class>
S1# show ip ssh
SSH Enabled - version 2.0
Authentication timeout: 90 secs; Authentication retries: 2
Minimum expected Diffie Hellman key size : 1024 bits
IOS Keys in SECSH format(ssh-rsa, base64 encoded):
ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAAAgQCdLksVz2QlREsoZt2f2scJHbW3aMDM8 /8jg/srGFNL
i+f+qJWwxt26BWmy694+6ZIQ/j7wUfIVNlQhI8GUOVIuKNqVMOMtLg8Ud4qAiLbGJfAaP3fyrKmViPpO
eOZof6tnKgKKvJz18Mz22XAf2u/7Jq2JnEFXycGMO88OUJQL3Q==
 
S1# show ssh
Connection Version Mode Encryption  Hmac        State        Username
0           2.0     IN   aes256-cbc  hmac-sha1 Session started admin
0           2.0     OUT  aes256-cbc  hmac-sha1 Session started admin
%No SSHv1 server connections running.
S1#